lfe_modules(7)         Miscellaneous Information Manual         lfe_modules(7)

MODULES
   Module Syntax
       LFE  code  is divided into modules.  A module consists of a sequence of
       attributes and function declarations, each being a valid form.

   Module Attributes
       A module attribute defines a certain property of a  module.   A  module
       attribute  consists  of  a tag and a value.  The tag is an atom and the
       value must be a literal term.

       Several module attributes have predefined meanings.  Some of them  have
       arity two, but user-defined module attributes must have arity one.

   Pre-Defined Module Attributes
       (module module-name)

       Module  declaration,  defining  the  name of the module.  The name mod‐
       ule-name, an atom, is to be same as the file name minus  the  extension
       .lfe.  Otherwise code loading does not work as intended.

       This  attribute  is to be specified first and is the only mandatory at‐
       tribute.

       (export functions)

       Exported functions.  Specifies which of the functions,  defined  within
       the module, that are visible from outside the module.

       functions is a list ((name-1 arity-1) ... (name-n arity-n)), where each
       name-i is an atom and arity-i an integer.

       (import module functions)

       Importing  allows  us  to call “local” functions where the call will be
       changed to a call to the  function  in  another  module,  so  the  call
       (do-stuff x y) will become the call (the-module:do-stuff x y).

       functions  is  a list (name-1 name-2 ... name-n) of the functions which
       will be changed to a call to the given module.

       (rename module renames)

       Like import but it allows us to rename the function being called, so in
       this case the call (funny-name x y) could become  (the-module:good-name
       x y).

       (moduledoc documentation)

       The  user  documentation for this module.  The allowed values for docu‐
       mentation are the same as for doc attribute.

       (compile options)

       Compiler options.  options is a single option or  a  list  of  options.
       This  attribute  is added to the option list when compiling the module.
       See module compile in Compiler.

       (vsn vsn)

       Module version.  vsn is any literal term and  can  be  retrieved  using
       beam_lib:version/1.

       If  this  attribute  is  not specified, the version defaults to the MD5
       checksum of the module.

       (on_load functions)

       This attribute names a function that is to be run automatically when  a
       module is loaded.

       (nifs functions)

       Specifies  which  of the functions, defined within the module, that may
       be loaded as NIFs with erlang:load_nif/2.

   Record and Struct definitions
       The same syntax as for module attributes is used for record and  struct
       definitions:

       (record name fields)

       (struct fields)

   Setting File and Line
       (file name line)

   Types and function specifications
       For a description of these see the lfe-types documentation.

       (type type-name type-def)

       (opaque type-name type-def)

       (spec function function-spec)

   Documentation attributes
       The  module attribute (doc documentation) is used to provide user docu‐
       mentation for a function/type/callback.

              (doc "Example documentation")
              (function example (lambda () 'ok))

       The attribute should be placed just before the entity it documents.

       (doc documentation)

   LFE specific attributes
       (export-macro macros)

       Export the macros so they can be callable from other modules.

       (module-alias aliases)

       Provide alias names for modules.  The alias can be used in code  as  an
       alternative to modulename.  A typical use is to provide short names for
       modules with long names.  aliases is a list:

       ((real-module-name-1 alias-1) ... (real-module-name-n alia-n)).

       (alias module-name alias)

       Provide  alias  names for modules.  The alias can be used in code as an
       alternative to module-name.  A typical use is to  provide  short  names
       for modules with long names.

   User-defined attributes
       User-defined module attributes must have arity one.  There are two ways
       of  creating user-defined attributes, either using the more literal at‐
       tribute tag or going more Erlangy with -.

       (attribute tag value)

       (- tag value)

   Comments
       Comments come in two forms: line comments and block comments.

       Line comments start with a semicolon ; and finish with the end  of  the
       line.

       Block comments are written as #| comment text |# where the comment text
       may  span  multiple  lines  but  my  not contain another block comment,
       i.e. it may not contain the character sequence #|.

   Older Forms
              (defmodule module-name
                  attributes)

AUTHORS
       Robert Virding.

                                     2026                       lfe_modules(7)
